Add Computer Science research summary (#2)
arzg/effects-of-ai: content/research/computer-science.md

title: "Computer Science"
---

> Computer Science (CS) is a major field in relation to the topic of Artificial Intelligence. Hardware and software – areas both covered by the discipline – are being used today to create and apply intelligent systems to contemporary challenges, such as medical diagnoses. However, AI is predicted to have a much larger impact in the future, with many differing opinions as to the outcome – and it is Computer Science that provides the factual evidence to back these claims.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Computer Science (also known as CompSci or CS) is a major field in relation to the topic of Artificial Intelligence. Hardware and software – areas both covered by the discipline – are being used today to create and apply intelligent systems to contemporary challenges, such as medical diagnoses. However, AI is predicted to have a much larger impact in the future, with many differing opinions as to the outcome – and it is Computer Science that provides the factual evidence to back these claims.
```

> Moore’s Law states that ‘the speed and capability of computers can be expected to double every two years, as a result of increases in the number of transistors a microchip can contain.’ (Oxford dictionary). This has held steady so far, and has governed some incredible technological developments, such as smartphones and smartwatches. These are made possible because the space required to encompass powerful computing devices is slowly getting smaller, as the size of transistors (the ‘building blocks’ of computer circuitry) continue to decrease with time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Moore’s Law states that ‘the speed and capability of computers can be expected to double every two years, as a result of increases in the number of transistors a microchip can contain.’ (Oxford dictionary). This has held steady so far, and has governed some incredible technological developments, such as smartphones and smartwatches. These are made possible because the space required to encompass (and therefore the electricity required to run) processors is getting smaller, as the size of transistors (the ‘building blocks’ of computer circuitry) continue to decrease with time.
```

> However, it has been predicted that the rate of this trend will slow significantly in the near future, because of the physical size limit that a transistor can have. Currently, transistors are about ten nanometres wide – for reference, a human red blood cell is usually between 6000 and 8000 nanometres wide. If a transistor becomes less than about five nanometres wide, certain quantum effects come into play, rendering them useless or unreliable. This means that in order to create accessible technology capable of running sophisticated, ‘intelligent’ programs, companies will need to find new solutions that increase the speed of smaller circuitry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, it has been predicted that the rate of this trend will slow significantly in the near future, due the physical size limit that a transistor can have. Currently, transistors are about ten nanometres wide – for reference, a human red blood cell is usually between 6,000 and 8,000 nanometres wide. If a transistor becomes less than circa five nanometres wide, quantum tunnelling come into play, allowing electrons to ‘tunnel’ through the transistor, rendering it useless. It is because of this that, in order to create accessible technology capable of running sophisticated, ‘intelligent’ programs, companies will need to find new solutions that increase the speed of smaller circuitry. Approaches include quantum computing and increasing the thread count, both of which allow the processor to run a larger number of computations at the same time, which is useful for neural nets due to their parallel nature.
```
